https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=d_0TK0aBa4E&feature=youtu.be

Narrator: This is an early 20th century photo.
What seems off about it compared to our family photos today?
They aren't smiling.
When you see an old photo like this,
what do you guess about their family happiness?
If you were like most people,
you assume they weren't living happy lives.
This type of photo has some serious drawbacks.
People forget most of their childhood
and are reminded by photos and videos.
If they see pictures of themselves as children looking sad,
they assume that represents a much larger part
of their childhood than it may have.
Today, most of our family photos have people smiling
and that is a big improvement.
But in a lot of ways,
our photos still have a long way to go.
Most are about the activities we did together,
like going to the beach or hiking in the mountains.
And although those are good things to do,
these photos and videos
aren't enforcing what is most important
about our family relationships during childhood:
Our deep bonds.
They are merely showing that we did fun activities together.
Instead of posed group shots,
film deep bond one-on-one moments,
moments like when a parent or grandparent is giving a hug
or when two siblings are showing affection.
One-on-one is important because both in the picture,
know they were part of the joy.
In group shots, it's hard to tell if mom was happy
because of me or someone else.
Shots are particularly warm
if it's obvious the kids were unaware
they were displaying their closeness.
A picture like this has amazing power,
especially for the younger brother.
This reminds him,
like when he is a teen struggling with identity issues
that he has always had a strong bond with his big brother.
Those bonds are important because they dampen the impact
of life setbacks
and help us heal quickly from hurt.
Take pictures of them playing together,
scenes where it's obvious
how much fun they have with each other.
Keep doing it when they're teenagers,
they need to be reminded
that you loved them through this difficult part of life.
So take lots of pictures and videos of closeness.
Even better than photos or videos,
try to capture those moments of true connection and joy.
-: Okay bud, you ready?
(giggling)
(laughing)
(laughing)
Narrator: As they grow older,
particularly during the tough teen years,
periodically show them to remind of the deep relationships
and safety that they have at home.
But what if I didn't record these moments
when my kids were younger?
That's okay, you can just reminisce
about those times and tell them what happened.
Tell them how you used to chase them around the house
and act like a lion.
Tell them how you used to play football
with them in the backyard.
Some people may already have these types
of photos and videos,
but they are lost among the flood of other pictures.
Find them and put those files
into a special folder or mark them in some way.
The most important takeaway
is that you want to find ways
like photos, videos, or storytelling
to remind them of the close relationships
they had surrounding them as they grew up.