https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=ltwh80X4dMI&feature=youtu.be

(gentle music)
-: Everyone in a community has a vested interest
in everyone else's children because everyone else's children
determine the next adult population
that makes for a successful society.
Built into our biology is the need to have
responsive interactions with adults.
-: Neglect for children is when they don't get
what the brain is expecting to get.
What the child is expecting to get.
What we are biologically prepared and waiting for,
which is input from those around us.
-: It's this back and forth, serve and return interaction
that literally shapes the architecture of the brain.
Serve and return begins when a child looks at something
or observes something, makes an utterance,
and that represents the serve.
And the return is when the parent notices
the child doing these things and responds to the child.
-: Under conditions where serve and return is broken,
you literally are pulling away what is the essential
ingredient of the development of human brain architecture.
-: It was a really compelling series of experiments
where they started by videotaping the mother and the baby
engaging in cooing and smiling.
And then they ask the mother to basically
put on a blank face and not respond at all.
(baby cooing)
When a baby is not attended to, that is a sign of danger
to the baby biologically.
So, the stress systems become activated.
(baby crying)
-: Okay.
-: In a brain that is constantly bathed in stress hormones,
not this up and down that comes with normal development,
certain key synapses, the connections between nerves
fail to form in critical regions of the brain.
-: So neglect, both fails to provide the stimulation
that's needed to develop the basic architecture.
And when it's at a certain level, is one of the most potent
activators of the stress biology of a young child.
So you get a double whammy.
-: Science points to four categories
of this spectrum of neglect.
The first category would be what's called
occasional inattention, where children experience
responsiveness most of the time,
but occasionally adults don't respond.
There's no harm in that and in fact,
there's probably some benefit.
-: A child can learn to self sooth
and explore the environment.
And all of those opportunities build brain architecture.
-: The second category, scientists would call
chronic under stimulation, is where on a regular basis,
children have less interaction with the adults around them
than is needed for healthy development.
-: Those children typically, when provided with enriched
learning opportunities and more typical levels
of serve and return will show catch up.
-: The third category is what science would call
severe neglect.
In a family where not only are there prolonged periods
of inattention and lack of responsiveness,
but often also associated with not being fed enough,
not being bathed enough, not having basic needs met.
-: Neglect is a huge problem in the U.S.
Children are much more likely to be neglected
than they are to experience any other kind of maltreatment.
-: We see the child really being at risk
for much more substantial kinds of deficits
down the road that don't necessarily get easily fixed
or ameliorated.
This is where we really need to think about more complicated
and often more intensive strategies
to help undo those effects.
-: The fourth category, called severe neglect
generally found in institutional settings,
is the result of children living in kind of warehoused
type situation in orphanages.
-: And it doesn't have to even be as extreme as orphanages.
It can be experiences that are regretfully occurring
in many, many times parts of our country.
-: Often institutional care in this country
is under the euphemistic name of transitional care
or temporary care or assessment facilities.
-: If you think about what institutional or residential care
would look like for an infant, where there's somebody new
coming onto the shift, every eight hours,
it really alters the development
of the child's brain architecture
and other aspects of the child's development.
-: We have the potential to change
children's developmental trajectory.
-: Interventions can apply to parents, to foster parents
or adoptive parents, childcare settings,
head start settings, and other kinds of settings.
And really, what they're about is attuning people
to the serve and return process.
-: Neglecting young children is neglecting
the foundations of a healthy, next generation.
The community pays a huge price later
in terms of the problems of the next generation,
whether it be educational achievement,
economic productivity, good citizenship,
the ability to parent the next generation.
All of the things that have to do
with a healthy, prosperous society.
(gentle music)