https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=WHT_9x_dMOY

Narrator: What are we supposed to do
when our partner is having a hard time?
I hear the front door open and close harder than usual.
A few minutes later,
my husband comes into the kitchen
and looks very frustrated and stressed,
and for good reason.
He got a flat tire this afternoon.
AAA took twice as long to show up
as they said they would, and that caused him
to miss an important meeting that took months to plan.
He is clearly upset,
but what do I do in this situation?
Do I leave the room?
Should I tell him tomorrow will be better?
Try to cheer him up?
We'll get back to this story later,
but let's see what is really going on.
-: Each of us are carrying around big, heavy sand bags.
These sand bags are filled with emotions.
They fill up as we go about our daily life.
You might be frustrated that we forgot
to take out the trash,
or angry because a co-worker was rude,
or feel overwhelmed because of our long list
of things to do.
Narrator: Try as we might,
it is very difficult for us to empty them ourselves.
They are too hard to reach.
We need some help.
The best way the sand bags can be emptied
is if someone helps us empty them.
This doesn't mean that the other person
is fixing whatever caused the emotions.
They are just helping us process
and release the emotions in a safe way.
After the sand has been let out of the bags,
the affected person feels relieved and thankful.
They cannot help but feel loving feelings
towards the person who has helped them lighten
such a heavy burden.
-: When done empathically,
helping others process their emotions
is the number-one way to improve relationships
and build deep bonds.
Narrator: In a relationship with a deep bond,
both partners take turns.
If I see my partner is unhappy,
I help him process his emotions.
That is my opportunity to support him.
If I'm having a down day,
I go talk to him about it.
He helps me process my emotions
and is the one in the supportive role.
This is beneficial because in the past,
neither of us really knew what to do
in these common stressful situations.
-: Now science has proven exactly what to do
when our partner is upset.
We also get a sense of deep satisfaction
when we help our partner, which is similar
to how we feel when we help someone else in need.
It gives us a sense of purpose and accomplishment.